---
layout: post
title:  "Week 3 at RC"
date:   2022-03-13 16:25:00 -0500
categories: post rc
---
{% include rc_blog_post_header.html %}

# A Low Code Kind of Week
My third week at RC involved a lot less coding than I was expecting. This is because I signed up for the Friday presentations to talk about all of the work I did trying to [hack my car]({% post_url hardware/canbus/2022-03-07-car-hack-1-of-n %}). I admittedly spent too much time focused on this [presentation](https://docs.google.com/presentation/d/12WODsurApemnqP7JatrNHUry-L0aKQn-b5rl4olOJzM/edit?usp=sharing); almost 30% of my time during week 3 was spent preparing for this event. This was for a few reasons:
- I was nervous about giving a presentation.
- The domain of this presentation is not my expertise.
- I have not given a presentation since university.
- I've never give a presentation to a group of 50+ people.

Despite this, I am happy with how the presentation went. I received a lot of positive feedback, and multiple people reached out to me to offer advice and guidance or just share articles related to the subject of hacking cars. I was happy to learn that others had also thought about accessing a car's data via it's OBD port, most notably this [guy](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=KTrgRYa2wbI).

One important lesson I learned, it's important to communicate and share what you are working on with others, even if you feel like it's not complete or you don't totally understand what is going on. This is because you never know what other people know, and a lot of people are willing to reach out and help you.

# Recap
Well, that's pretty much it for week 3. I'm happy I invested so much in the presentation and hope to do another one before my time at RC is over. For week 4, I want to make sure I get back to studying data structures and algorithms with <i>[Complete Intro to CS](https://btholt.github.io/complete-intro-to-computer-science/)</i> and <i>[Cracking The Coding Interview](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cracking_the_Coding_Interview)</i>.
